
## "TWANG": The Dialect
Hi y'all! Today I'm going to be talking on my experience having a southern accent. When you grow up in the south, you learn to speak with a certain twang. Often times this twang can be diificult to understand for those who haven't spent their lives hearing it. Common “isms” of the twang include often leaving the G’s off of words, pronouncing words differently from the commonly practiced pronunciation indicated by their spelling, and using informal conjunctions and idioms that only somebody raised in the middle of nowhere on a farm would understand; these are all the norm in the life of someone who learns English with a twang. 

 Well, once I left the small southern part of Missouri I grew up in for a more northern area, I noticed just how difficult it was for those around me to understand what I was saying; even those I spoke to everyday. One memory I recall where my accent had caused confusion was when I was out grocery shopping with my husband. I was going down the list of things we needed and I told him our next stop would be the bakin' aisle. You can probably see where this is headed. He pasued for a moment and said "There isn't a bacon aisle." I told him "Yes, there is. He had a perplexed look on his face and so I said "It's where the sugar, flour, and spices are." That was when he started laughing and I of course didn't understand what was so funny. He told me that he thought I was saying bacon aisle and he was beginning to think he had missed out on the grocery aisle dedicated solely to bacon. We had a good laugh about that and still talk about that moment years later. It was an intersting moment for me and still is because I don't hear my accent when speaking or notice when I leave letters out of words, so I have had to learn how to speak "correctly". 

 Once I got into the work force, I tried really hard to get rid of the accent because of the amount of confuson it caused. I was no longer in an environment where a simple misprounciation was a simple misunderstanding that everyone would laugh about once we all got on the same page. To combat this problem, I began by printing out the NATO phonetic alphabet and taping it to my desk so I could reference it when asked, “I don’t understand; could you spell that for me?” I also started typing out, word for word, what I was going to say to ensure I didn’t leave any letters out or off the end of a word. These practices did help with improving my speech and I was able to create a "professional work voice". 

 I thought I had gotten into the habit of using my new voice reguarly until I got comfortable around people outside of work and parts of my twang would slip out, or after I would talk on the phone with my parents. My husband tells me he knows when I have spoken to my parents because my twang comes back out full force. The interactions I had with people that resulted in positive feedback from my accent helped me realize I didn't need to fully remove how I spoke because it is what makes me who I am. I've leanered when I need to employ the "work voice" and when I can let it go to the wayside.    

[Back to Home](README.md) [Previous Page](Hiking.md) 